Low memory allocation types breaking changes (#5416)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/upgrades/7to8/index.md

{
    timeToBeReceived = constraint.MaxTime;
}
```

## Dependency on System.Memory package for .NET Framework

Memory allocations for incoming and outgoing messages bodies are reduced by using the low allocation memory types via the System.Memory namespace. These type are available on .NET Framework via the **System.Memory** package. The NServiceBus build that targets .NET Framework has this dependency added.

### Pipeline context types changes

> Throughput the pipeline all contexts have been updated to use `ReadonlyMemory<byte>` (e.g. context for behaviors, stage connectors, and message mutators) and affects the following types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughput the pipeline all contexts have been updated to use `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` (e.g. context for behaviors, stage connectors, and message mutators) and affects the following types:
```

> Throughput the pipeline all contexts have been updated to use `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` (e.g. context for behaviors, stage connectors, and message mutators) and affects the following types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Throughout the pipeline, all context types (e.g. context for behaviors, stage connectors, and message mutators) have been updated to use `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` instead of `byte[]`. These are:
```

* MutateIncomingTransportMessageContext
* MutateOutgoingTransportMessageContext
* ConnectorContextExtensions
* IIncomingPhysicalMessageContext
* IncomingPhysicalMessageContext
* IOutgoingPhysicalMessageContext
* OutgoingPhysicalMessageContext
* SerializeMessageConnector

> ## Message bodies only available in scope of incoming or outgoing messages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Message body reference valid only in scope of message processing
```

> Messages bodies available via `ReadonlyMemory<byte>` are only valid while in scope of incoming or outgoing message processing. Once out of scope the data referenced is no longer valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messages bodies available via `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` are only valid while in scope of incoming or outgoing message processing. Once out of scope the data referenced is no longer valid.
```

> Messages bodies available via `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` are only valid while in scope of incoming or outgoing message processing. Once out of scope the data referenced is no longer valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
References to message bodies exposed through context types as `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` are valid only for the time of message processing. After the processing finishes, the data may not be assumed valid.
```

> If access is still required outside the processing scope it is required to copy the message body while in scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If message body value is required after processing finishes it is required to copy it while still in scope.
```

### Message Mutators: Updating of message bodies

> The message mutator API for changing the message body has changed. Instead, of `UpdateMessage(byte[] body)` method `MutateIncomingTransportMessageContext` and `MutateOutgoingTransportMessageContext` expose `Body` property of type `ReadonlyMemory<T>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message mutator API for changing the message body has changed. Instead, of `UpdateMessage(byte[] body)` method `MutateIncomingTransportMessageContext` and `MutateOutgoingTransportMessageContext` expose `Body` property of type `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>`.
```

> Message mutators that replace the whole message body might be better of to be converted to a behavior. With a [pipeline behavior](/nservicebus/pipeline/manipulate-with-behaviors.md) it is possible to reduce allocations via [`ArrayPool<byte>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.buffers.arraypool-1) or packages like [RecyclableMemoryStream](https://github.com/Microsoft/Microsoft.IO.RecyclableMemoryStream).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In scenarios, where mutators replace the whole message body switching to pipeline behavior might bring significant performance benefits. With a [pipeline behavior](/nservicebus/pipeline/manipulate-with-behaviors.md) it is possible to reduce allocations via [`ArrayPool<byte>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.buffers.arraypool-1) or packages like [RecyclableMemoryStream](https://github.com/Microsoft/Microsoft.IO.RecyclableMemoryStream).
```

> Message mutators that replace the whole message body might be better of to be converted to a behavior. Via a [pipeline behavior](/nservicebus/pipeline/manipulate-with-behaviors.md). Via behavior it is possible to reduce allocations via [`ArrayPool<byte>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.buffers.arraypool-1) or packages like [RecyclableMemoryStream](https://github.com/Microsoft/Microsoft.IO.RecyclableMemoryStream).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message mutators that replace the whole message body might be better of to be converted to a behavior. With a [pipeline behavior](/nservicebus/pipeline/manipulate-with-behaviors.md) it is possible to reduce allocations via [`ArrayPool<byte>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.buffers.arraypool-1) or packages like [RecyclableMemoryStream](https://github.com/Microsoft/Microsoft.IO.RecyclableMemoryStream).
```

### Serializers: Deserialization using ReadOnlyMemory of byte

Deserialization updated to use `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` instead of `Stream` with  on `Deserialize` API method on `IMessageSerializer`.

```csharp
object[] Deserialize(ReadOnlyMemory<byte> body, IList<Type> messageTypes = null);
```

> If serializers do not support `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` usage of `.ToArray` must be avoided as this will copy the data and increases memory allocations. Instead include a shim that provides read-only access to the underlying data or use the `ReadOnlyMemoryExtensions.AsStream` from the [Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.toolkit.highperformance.extensions.readonlymemoryextensions.asstream).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serializers that do not support `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` as deserialization input should avoid `.ToArray` calls to prevent unnecessary memory allocations. Instead, it's recommended to implement a shim exposing read-only data as types supported by the serializer APIs or use existing implementations like `ReadOnlyMemoryExtensions.AsStream` from the [Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.toolkit.highperformance.extensions.readonlymemoryextensions.asstream).
```

## Transports

### Transports: Outgoing message TransportOperation API

The outgoing message body passed to the transport via `TransportOperation` has a new constructor:

```csharp
public TransportOperation(string messageId, DispatchProperties properties, ReadOnlyMemory<byte> body, Dictionary<string, string> headers)
```

### Transports: Incoming message MessageContext API

> A message body passed by the transport to the core using `ReadonlyMemory<byte>` instead of `byte[]`. The `MessageContext` becomes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message body passed by the transport to the core using `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` instead of `byte[]`. The `MessageContext` becomes:
```

```csharp

> public MessageContext(string nativeMessageId, Dictionary<string, string> headers, ReadonlyMemory<byte> body, TransportTransaction transportTransaction, ContextBag context)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public MessageContext(string nativeMessageId, Dictionary<string, string> headers, ReadOnlyMemory<byte> body, TransportTransaction transportTransaction, ContextBag context)
```

```

> For transports that use low allocation types, this allows passing message body to the Core without additional memory allocations. Secondly, this ensures that the body passed by the transport cannot be changed by code executing in the pipeline (immutable message body). This will not affect transports that represent message body as `byte[]` - `byte[]` and be cast to `ReadonlyMemory<byte>` without additional memory allocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For transports that use low allocation types, this allows passing message body without additional memory allocations. Secondly, this ensures that the body passed by the transport cannot be changed by code executing in the pipeline (immutable message body). 
```

## Persisters

> ### Persister Outbox API: TransportOperation based on `ReadonlyMemory<byte>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Persister Outbox API: TransportOperation based on `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>`
```

> The outbox `TransportOperation` is using `ReadonlyMemory<byte>` instead of `byte[]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The outbox `TransportOperation` is using `ReadOnlyMemory<byte>` instead of `byte[]`.
```
